# History Panic

"History Panic" refers to the feeling of "what if I get this historical detail
wrong!?" when playing a tabletop RPG. It probably means more things, too. I
might prefer if it were called "lore panic", because I feel that it doesn't
uniquely apply to history, but many people do feel it does, or that history
somehow carries higher stakes.

I think that it would be great if more people could get more relaxed about
this, though. I love historical gaming, and I love history being accessible to
people, not intimidating.

There are two important points I want to make regarding history panic.

The first is that [Bernadette Banner][1] has phrased it very well when she says
that "historical accuracy" is a terrible term. As a term, it doesn't allow any
room for historical fiction, historical reimagination, or the very real
uncertainties involved in studying history. Rather, she prefers the term
"historical plausibility". So do I. It allows for "this is within the range
defined by what we know."

[1]: https://www.youtube.com/@bernadettebanner

The second is a brief anecdote concerning my experience playing [Sagas of the
Icelanders][2] with a friend who (current at the time of the game) taught the
Sagas to undergrads. She gave me a great object lesson in how to bring
historical detail, or lore generally, to a game, without slowing it down or
turning it scary for anyone.

[2]: https://www.drivethrurpg.com/product/254224/Sagas-of-the-Icelanders?manufacturers_id=11487

What she did was this: when a detail didn't matter, she let it be, no comment.
When a detail mattered, she wouldn't just bring it in as a correction, as a
stop, but rather she would bring it in with an attached "here's how this can
enrich and complicate this moment". Basically, an improv-style yes-and, but
with a view to how that principle behaves in the face of canon, lore, and
external facts. Examples of details that mattered included gender roles
(encoded in the game in a fashion anyway), the lack of trees to speak of in
Iceland, and the aggressively flat social system compared to the systems of
nobility that dominated the continent. All of these came up as ways to enrich a
moment, and with clear offerings provided to the player she was, well,
_correcting_. They were none of them dead ends.

History is great. And fun to play with!
