# Friction

I’ve recently read, and am thinking about, [this piece][1]. It’s about Tumblr
trying to design things such that users can join up and start participating
with less friction. Maybe that’s right for Tumblr, but it has me thinking about
how much the internet world values “low-friction” interactions.

[1]: https://www.tumblr.com/cryptotheism/722505051588952064/i-genuinely-appreciate-the-clarification-here-the?source=share

Let’s play with that metaphor.

Friction: kinetic energy lost from the system by conversion to thermal energy.
Friction: a substantial part of what allows you to _move_ usefully, or even at
all. Friction lets you push off and progress. Friction lets you break out of
your trajectory, and go somewhere with intention. Just as “inefficiency” can be
(though isn’t always) the same as “resilience”, “friction” can be the force
that lets you decide where you end up.

“Ease of use” isn’t the same thing as “meaningful to use”. There’s value,
often, in difficulty (though again, not always). You don’t get strong without
resistance, and you don’t get better at writing or thinking without some
feedback, push back, and difficulty.

Not everything has to be this kind of activity. But also, not _nothing_. Not
everything for everyone, either: I’m awful at practicing musical instruments,
and I don’t see myself getting better any time soon. I’ve never really learned
how to do the hard work of that kind of practice, and I don’t have much drive
to do so. But it’s very important to me that some people put in that effort,
and it’s very important to me that I put in that kind of effort on _something_.

I want spaces online that let people work out ideas and develop them and move
past spaces designed to be _always easy_ to use. Not hard for the sake of being
hard, not hard because of stupid accidents, but hard like the gym is hard, hard
like the feedback at art school is hard.

And I want those spaces to be _intentionally_ like that, not like that despite
the best efforts of the designers of the space.
