# Post your character

## valiance

*July 2011*

So one of the things that jumped out at me when reading BH was that characters
mentioned as examples in the Arc section didn't have fully filled out character
sheets. So I'm going to start off by rectifying that lack:

**Peter Parker aka Spider-Man**

**Arc**: The Gifted

**Virtue**: Responsibility

**Heroic Traits**:

  * Spider-Sense
  * Webslinger
  * Proportional Strength of a Spider!
  * Secret Identity
  * Jokester
  * Science Nerd

**Villainous Traits**:

  * Overprotective
  * Misunderstood Vigilante

**Lasting Circumstances**:

  * Flat Broke

**Fleeting Circumstances**:

  * Love Triangle
  * Persecuted by the Media

**Ties**:

  * Mary Jane Watson
  * Aunt May
  * Queens, New York City

**Threads**:

  * We Were Once Friends - 1
  * Ubiquitous - 1
  * Yes, You Can - 2
  * Shoulders of Giants - 3

**Thoughts on writing this**:

Arc and Virtue were clear and easy, but the traits were hard. I initially had
something related to spider-agility in there, but took it out in exchange for
more personality based traits.

I also had issues choosing villainous traits for spidey, help there would be
much appreciated. 

Circumstances and Ties were easy peasy, and I wanted a place for one of the
ties instead of a person to mix it up a bit. Harry Osborn was likely my 3rd tie
if I went with a human.

For threads I like the rank 1 ones, but rank 2 and especially rank 3 are a bit
iffy. Not sure any of them really fit dead on.

So whaddaya guys think?

## Kit

*July 2011*

Cool!

So, I think you're on the right track to go with personality-based Traits. The
thing about that sort of Trait is that it's not just more widely applicable,
but more interesting when it is applied. Sure, you can have "Swordsman", and
that just means you get a die when swords are involved. Something like
"Jokester" can be applied in all sorts of situations, and when and how you
apply it says a lot about your characterization of Spidey.

Villainous Traits can be hard for someone like Spidey, who's generally pretty
upstanding. But look at it this way: Villainous Traits are an invitation to go
against your Virtue and gain Doom. So, when does Spidey renounce
Responsibility?

## worldnamer

*July 2011*

Holy cow, we have a forum? How awesome is that.

@valiance: that's an awesome build. I agree, choosing good traits is much
harder than it seems. As consolation, it gets easier, the more you do it.

Re: Spiderman's Villainous Traits: I might choose some others for him. Your
choices seem perfectly reasonable, but if I were playing Spider Man, I'd maybe
have "Enjoys His Job Too Much" as a Villainous trait. On the other hand,
putting Flat Broke in Lasting Circumstances is something of a brilliant stroke;
I hadn't really thought about it but yes, Peter Parker is ALWAYS out of funds.

## valiance

*August 2011*

to my mind spidey only renounces responsibility when he's hemmed in by a
competing responsibility... hrmm maybe something like: Harried Hero, or Divided
Priorities? Still not hacking it for me...

Enjoys His Job Too Much? Therefore he neglects his responsibilities as Peter
Parker because he's too busy being spiderman?

Thanks worldnamer, appreciate the props.

## Kit

*August 2011*

This is something worth spinning into another thread at some point: internal
conflicts. We've been using them almost since the beginning, but we didn't
write them into the book for some reason. If you can use a Trait to support
your darker behavior, it's a good villainous one.

## Dragonsong

*August 2011*

**Roshosh Moller AKA That Sand Person**

**Arc**: The Lost

**Virtue**: Justice

**Heroic Traits**:

  * Fluidity of Form
  * Sand Based Gestalt being
  * Experimental 
  * Speaks to the Earth
  * Harmonious Vibrations

**Villainous Traits**:

  * "You look like 40 miles of Rough Road"
  * Suffocating
  * Distracted by Inner Voices
  * Tachyon Being (gained after an Intimate experience with a Power Source last
    session. http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/PowerSource)

**Lasting Circumstances**:

  * I am Unique in the Universe

**Fleeting Circumstances**:

  * Where Am I From?
  * Short of Funds ( I think I want to change this to "What do you mean I Need
    Money?". It fits the proximal other  aspects much better)

**Ties**:

  * Dr Molller- Planetary geologist/ "father"
  * Alice- an in-transition M to F prostitute. my connection to the rebellion
  * KT 485 Sentient Android

**Threads**:

  * Conveyance - 1
  * Treasure Map - 1
  * Speaks to the (earth) - 2
  * Reincarnation - 3

Creating an experimental life form composed of sand and minerals for a Space
Opera/Tomorrow People styled Game. I found that My rank 2 and 3 Threads were
the easiest but I struggled with the rank 1's. So far having a great time
playing him and is a fun take on Data/Galatea. I feel like the system allowed
me to very effectively create something very alien from human with a strong set
of motives and reactions in what 15 minutes.

## foolsmask

*September 2011*

@valiance:  I actually think your 2 and 3 threads are just fine.  Spidey has
created other heroes through his actions before.  I can't recall the exact
circumstances but there were 4 characters in all, one was called Prodigy, the
other was Richochet...or something...they became heroes because of Spider-Man.
Then there were all the children in alternate time line.  Marvel did something
called M2 and his daughter was a great example...and again in Earth-X he had a
daughter that took up the costumed hero gig.  And the 3 is good too, he doesn't
rely on science to often, but he does use it.  His webs are a science thing,
not a power (at least originally).  Maybe he isn't Mr. Fantastic with all the
money to spend but he is a scientist.  A very impressive write up I think.
